[Refer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rmQQqmAIiLE)
1. **[What is node.js?](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/node-js-what-when-where-why-how-ab8424886e2/)**
  _Answer_
  **node.js** is a server side scripting which is used to build scalable programs. The advantages of **Node.js** over other scripting language includes
  - Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine
  - Node.js uses an event driven, asynchronous, non-blocking I/O model
  - Node.js operate on a single thread event loop
  > I/O (Input/Output)
  **I/O** refers to the program's interaction with the system's disk and network. Examples includes Reading/Writing data from/to disk, making HTTP request, and talking to the database.
  > Synchronous
  **Synchronous** execution usually refers to code executing in sequence. In Synchronous programming, the program is executed line by line at a time.
  > Asynchronous
  **Asynchronous** execution usually refers to code not executing in the sequence it appears in the code. In async programming the program doesn't wait for the task to complete and can move on to the next task.
  ```
  // Synchronous: 1,2,3
  alert(1);
  alert(2);
  alert(3);

  // Asynchronous: 1,3,2
  alert(1);
  setTimeout(() => alert(2), 0);
  alert(3);
  ```
  > Blocking VS Non-blocking
  **Blocking** refers to operations that block further execution until that operation finishes. It execute **synchronously** while **Non-blocking** refers to operations that does not block execution. **Non-blocking** execute **asynchrously**

  ```
  // Blocking
  const fs = require('fs');
  const data = fs.readFileSync('/file.md'); // blocks here until file is read
  console.log(data);
  moreWork(); // will run after console.log

  // Non-blocking
  const fs = require('fs');
  fs.readFile('/file.md', (err, data) => {
    if (err) throw err;
    console.log(data);
  });
  moreWork(); // will run before console.log
  ```
  > Callback
  A **Callback** is a function passed into another function as an argument, which can be invoked or callback inside the outer function to complete some kind of action at a convenient time.
  ```
  // Sync callback
  function greetings(callback) {
    callback();
  }
  greetings(() => { console.log('Hi'); });
  moreWork(); // will run after console.log

  // Async callback
  const fs = require('fs');
  fs.readFile('/file.md', function callback(err, data) { // fs.readFile is an async method provided by Node
    if (err) throw err;
    console.log(data);
  });
  moreWork(); // will run before console.log
  ```
  > Callback hell
  **Callback hell** is a situation where callbacks are nested within another callbacks several levels deep, making the code difficult to understand, maintain and debug.

  > Event and event-driven programming
  **Events** are actions generated by the user or the system, like click, file download, hardware or software erorr.
  **Event-driven programming** is a programming in which the flow of the program is determined by events. An **event-driven programming** performs actions in response to events. It is divided into two section: event selection, and event handling.

  > [Event Loop](https://nodejs.org/de/docs/guides/event-loop-timers-and-nexttick/#what-is-the-event-loop)
  The **event loop** is what allows Node.js to perform non-blocking I/O operation desite JavaScript is single-threaded.

  ```
  const fs = require('fs');

  function someAsyncOperation(callback) {
    // Assume this takes 95ms to complete
    fs.readFile('/path/to/file', callback);
  }

  const timeoutScheduled = Date.now();

  setTimeout(() => {
    const delay = Date.now() - timeoutScheduled;

    console.log(`${delay}ms have passed since I was scheduled`);
  }, 100);

  // do someAsyncOperation which takes 95 ms to complete
  someAsyncOperation(() => {
    const startCallback = Date.now();

    // do something that will take 10ms...
    while (Date.now() - startCallback < 10) {
      // do nothing
    }
  });
  ```
2. Where can we use node.js?
  Answer:
  - Web applications
  - Network applications
  - Distributed system
  - General purpose application
3. Advantages of using node.js?
  - It provides easy way to build scalable network programs
  - Great concurrency
  - Generally fast
  - Asynchronous everything
  - Almost never blocks
4. What are the two types of API functions in Node.js?
  Answer:
  - Asynchronous, non-blocking functions
  - Synchronous, blocking functions
5. What is control flow function?
  Answer:
  Control flow function is generic piece of code which runs in between several Asynchrounous function
6. Explain the steps how **control flow** controls the function call?
  Answer:
  - Control the order of execution
  - Colect data
  - Limit the concurrency
  - Call the next step in the program
7. Using event loop what are the tasks that should be done asynchronously?
  Answer:
  - I/O operation
  - Heavy computation
  - Anything requiring blocking
8. What are the two arguments that **async.queue** takes?
  Answer:
  - Task function
  - Concurrency value

9. What is **REPL** in node.js?
  <br>

  **REPL** stands for **Read Eva Print Loop** which represent computer environment like a Window console or Unix/Linux shell terminal where command is entered, and system responds with an output.

10. What is the difference between **fork()** and **spaw()** methods in Node.js?

  <br>
  **Fork()** is a particular case of spaw() method that generates a new instances of a V8 engine.
  **spaw()** launches a new process with the new set of commands and it does not geneterates new instance of a V8 engine.

11. What is the use of **Buffer** class in Node.js?

  <br>

  **Buffer** class stores raw data similar to an array of intergers. Buffer class is used because pure JavaScript is not compatable with binary data.

12. What is **piping** in Node.js?
  <br>

  **Piping** is the mechanism of connecting output of one data stream to another data stream

13. What are some of the flags used in **read/Write** operation in files?

  <br>

  - **r** - Open file for reading
  - **r+** - Open file for reading and writing
  - **w** - Open file for writing
  - **w+** - Open file for reading and writing
  - **a** - Open file for appending
  - **a+** - Open file for reading and appending

14. How will you open a file using Node.js?

  <br>

  The syntax for opening a file in Node.js is
  ```
  fs.open(path, flag[, module], callback)
  ```

15. What is **Reactor Pattern** in Node.js?

  <br>

  **Reactor Pattern** is a concept of non-blocking I/O operations. It provides handler for each I/O and as soon as the I/O request is generated, it is then submitted to a demultiplexer.

16. What is **test pyramid** in Node.js?

  <br>

  **Test Pyramid** is the figure that expalins the protion of unit tests, integration test, and end-to-end tests that are required for the proper development of a project.
  - Unit test- This tests individual units of the code in isolation
  - Integration test - This test the integration among dissimilar units
  - End-to-End tests: This test the whole system from The UI to data store and back.

17. Describe the exit codes of Node.js?

  <br>

  **Exit code** is a set of specific codes which are used for finishing a specific process. Examples of exit codes incluse
  - Uncaught fatal exception
  - Unused
  - Fatal error
  - Internal exception handler run-time error
  - Internal Javascript evaluation failure
18. What is an **Event Emitter** in Node.js?

  <br>

  **Event Emiiter** is the class that holds the object that can emit evenys

  ```
  const EventEmitter = require('events);
  class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
  const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
  myEmitter.on('event', () => {
    console.log('an event occurred!');
  });

  myEmitter.emit('event');
  ```

19. What is **package.json** file?
    <br>

    The **package.json** file is the heart of a node.js system. It is the file that holds the metadata about a particular project.

20. What are **streams** in Node.js?

  <br>

  **Streams** are objects that allow you to read or write data continuosly. There are four types of streams
  - Readable
  - Writable
  - Duplex
  - Transform